Subject: Phase 1 - Painter: Teaching a computer to identify cancer.

Phase 1 Project Selection Status Report

Name: Michael Painter                                                           

College: Churchill College                                                        

User Identifier: mp703                                                

Director of Studies: John Fawcett                                            

Please complete 1, 2 and 3 below.

1. Please write 100 words on your current project ideas.

Write a classifier to identify if non-healthy cells are present 
from images of an oesophagus (sprayed with contrast agents). The 
images are taken with a hyperspectral camera developed from the 
physics department. Some extensions may include data reduction 
(to allow real time analysis and then clinical use), and 
implementing some spectral unmixing algorithms. 



2. Please list names of potential project supervisors.

Pietro Lio (has already agreed that he is willing to supervise).                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                                                                            

3. Is there any chance that your project will involve any
computing resources other than the Computing Service's MCS and
software that is already installed there, for example: your own
machine, machines in College, special peripherals, imported
software packages, special hardware, network access, substantial
extra disc space on the MCS.

If so indicate below what, and what it is needed for.

I will likely use my own machine for ease. I will need to have a 
data set for the supervised learning and testing, I have met with
some people from the physics department and I know this set exists. 
For the data reduction extension I may need a further data set, 
which doesn't exist yet, but may do over the course of the next 
year. I will obviously make a plan so that I don't need to rely on 
this extension. I shouldn't need access to the camera myself, 
just some of the data from it.
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 